''If my people, who are called by
my name, will humble themselves
and pray and seek my face
and turn from their wicked ways,
then I will hear from heaven,
and I will forgive their sin
and will heal their land.''
(2 Chronicles 7:14)
Let’s go there, O.K.?
MATERNITY HOSPITAL
What? What?
Because of the pregnancy,
all my emotions were mixed.
Happiness, sadness.
I can't explain it. Fear.
Knowing that I wouldn't be able
to work if I felt unwell,
that I wouldn't be able to take care
of my 2-year-old child,
that I wouldn't be able to take her
to kindergarden if I felt unwell.
No one can do this
if my husband is at work.
Knowing that I couldn't
work and contribute,
and that one paycheck
covered only utilities and rent.
I hastily decided that I would
abort my baby, that I could do it.
I lived for two weeks
certain that I could do it.
What's horrible is that,
suddenly, I had no emotions.
My emotions turned from happiness
to the belief I would abort the baby.
As if it were that simple.
I went for a check-up at the Merkur
Hospital and arranged everything.
When I arrived on the arranged day,
my husband couldn't go with me
because there were no parking spaces.
He left everything to me
because he couldn't do it.
He simply couldn't do it.
At the beginning, it was difficult.
I left her and I went away,
because it was difficult.
I didn't tell her that.
I didn't tell her many things.
I fell into the hands of a nurse
who started telling me,
''Are you sure? Don't do it.
You'll kill your child.
As if you killed the one you have.''
As if I didn't already know this.
But I felt I had to do it.
She sent me to a woman at the stand.
''I want to live!'' -unborn child
She was very cheerful and lively.
She told me not to do this and
gave me a number to call for help.
I told her to leave me alone and
that no one in the world could help me.
She said: ''Yes they can!
Just call the number.''
I didn't want to,
so I ran away from her.
I sat by the road and cried frantically
because I didn't know what to do.
Of course I'm happy.
Especially because now I have a son,
and Gabrijela will have a brother.
I would have been very sorry
if she had had an abortion. Very sorry.
But you came and helped us.
Here they come.
That's my brother.
We mustn't touch little brother.
Who is that? –Little brother!
-Whose brother? -Mine!
Whose little brother?
–That's my little brother!
40 DAYS...
Humanity today is facing
one of the greatest crises in history.
This crisis is literally
destroying human lives.
It is hurting women especially,
but also tearing families apart.
This crisis has caused big problems,
not only on a local level,
but also on a global scale.
And that is abortion.
On an annual basis,
only through a clinical procedure,
more than 56 million
children are aborted.
The number of aborted children
on an annual basis is bigger than
all the other human casulties together.
I WANT TO BE WITH YOU, MOM
-I did something like that.
And, believe me, I know the name
of the child, the sex of the child.
And every time I see
a child of the same sex,
I ask myself a hundred times
what colour its eyes would have been.
What kind of little girl she would be.
This is a wound you can't erase.
And even though I forgave myself,
and people around me,
and the Lord forgave me,
this can't be erased.
It is really hard.
When you don't think about it,
the life just goes on,
but when you go into the depths of it,
you can't escape from it.
The reason I considered abortion
was the pressure from my family.
''What do you need one more child for?
You're young. You have time for kids.
You're digging yourself
into a hole.''
All these words created
a confusion in my head.
I went to hospital for a check-up
and to arrange to have an abortion.
The doctor told me to take
a look at the monitor,
because I didn't have the
strength to look at it.
Then I saw those little hands
and feet, its heart beating,
and then it came to me that
Danijel was just the same.
That he is now a real child.
I just couldn't do it.
A person then asks oneself
what can one do about it.
How can I as an individual
make a change in this world
which has strayed
into a huge emptiness?
What can I as a human being
do to help my neighbour?
Most Holy Soul of Christ,
Masterpiece of the Holy Trinity.
Sanctify us.
Most Holy Soul of Christ, Archetype
of the perfection of creation.
Sanctify us.
Most Holy Soul of Christ,
King of eternal glory.
Sanctify us.
Most Holy Soul of Christ, Ark of all
the graces and gifts of the Holy Spirit.
Sanctify us.
Most Holy Soul of Christ, Founder of
the Church bearing hosts of saints.
Sanctify us.
40 Days for Life is the biggest
pro-life initiative in the world.
It's an ecumenical
and Christian initiative
gathering all Christians
in the fight for life.
It gathers more than 750,000
people around the world,
and consists of 3 key elements:
prayer and fasting, peaceful vigil,
and community outreach.
Without prayer and fasting
we can't do anything.
Prayer and fasting are the foundation
on which we can build
everything we plan to do for our Lord,
and everything we want to allow
the Lord to do through us.
This is a method. The way of
God's Kingdom. The way of Heaven.
We people have our own methods and
thoughts, but the Lord has taught us
that only through prayer and fasting,
through humility,
through a silent or loud presence,
we can give glory to God and save those
for whom Christ spilled His blood.
Deliver us, Jesus!
If I had known about it before,
believe me, I wouldn't have done it.
I only became aware of it
when I started a spiritual retreat.
It didn't concern me much.
It was something that had passed.
No one had even taught us about it.
Well, it posed a problem
for our careers.
We thought that we would have
more babies, that there was time.
We did not think about it
as a child that is unique.
It was something that happened, that
could be solved by a medical procedure.
Of course, it wasn't like that.
The procedure was done,
but it opened many wounds in our
hearts and led to distrust between us.
Because I did not protect her,
as a real man should do.
I also lost my trust in women.
That what we were created to be,
to have a child and start a family,
we destroyed everything in
a moment of not thinking.
People say that one loves
the unwanted child in a special way.
And that is true. But I can't say
that I love Danijel or her more.
I love them the same.
But she is special.
My Antonia will turn two soon.
I can say that during
these two years of her life,
I have learned a lot.
My life has changed.
My motherly love has grown deeper
because I was at the end of my ropes.
Should I terminate the pregnancy
or give birth to that precious life.
We pray and fast throughout the year
for the end of abortion
in Croatia and the world.
Twice a year, in front of hospitals
and health centres across Croatia
and around the whole world,
at the same time,
we stand in vigil for 40 days, as
the last sign of hope, mercy and love
for those mothers and families
considering abortion,
and as the first sign of mercy for
those afflicted by the wound of abortion
and who want to find consolation,
forgiveness, and repent for that sin.
I would never have done what I did
if I had had the understanding of it,
as the mothers today have.
There is hope for them.
I have never been sorry
for giving birth to my two children,
but I have never found consolation
for having lost many of my children,
in this way or the other.
My mom wasn't happy because
she is on social support herself
and she didn't know
how we would manage.
She told me not to come home
because we have nothing to life off.
My boyfriend said he didn't care
and that I could do whatever I wanted.
And that he couldn't promise to be
with me. That it was my decision.
My aunt went to talk to a woman
praying in front of the hospital.
I went to hospital on appointment
and saw people praying outside.
At first, I didn't understand why they
were praying, but I noticed a number.
And above that number
there was written 40 Days for Life.
I approached the girl standing behind
the sign and asked about the number.
She said they were a pro-life
association called ''Betlehem'',
and they were fighting
for life for 40 days.
I told her my story. I cried.
It was very difficult for me.
She invited me to move
to the side and so we did.
She told me very caringly and lovingly
that there was no reason to be afraid
because we had the support of
both the Association ''Betlehem''
and 40 Days for Life.
She told me to contact them freely,
and that they were there for us
for everything we needed.
That we should be calm
and everything would be fine.
I needed attention and care.
I needed support.
I thought I was alone. I needed
someone who would understand me
and who would support my
decision for the life of my child.
Of my little girl whom I have been
carrying for nine months.
I am happy and grateful
to them for everything.
As well as to my aunt
who let me stay at her place
and who is always with me and
who is present at my every check-up.
I believe that every mother carrying
a baby underneath her heart
feels love towards it.
She only needs a little
courage and encouragement.
That we are here for them
and that somebody cares.
We do care. In conversation,
without even counseling,
just to listen to them
and see what troubles their heart,
we have felt that already
this brings great fruit.
Should I put her here?
–The other way around.
Or here perhaps?
That's Russia! –No, ha?
-Don't send me to France!
Why? Are you afraid of dying?
I'm not afraid of dying.
It's just because.
''Now choose life!''
''No one can do it for me,
to carry my cross,
to fulfil Your plan.
No one can do it for me,
to overcome my fears,
to endure my battles.
Because You call me by my name.
I am neither letter nor number, but
engraved in the palm of Your hand.
HUMAN RIGHTS BEGIN WITH CONCEPTION
''You call me by my name.
I am neither letter nor number,
but the one You died for.
EVERY LIFE IS GOD’S GIFT
PRAY TO END ABORTION
This is my life, my battle and pain,
my joy and salvation,
my cross and blessing.
This is my life, my battle and pain,
my joy and salvation, both
a cross and blessing from Heaven."
I'm a child conceived by rape in 1992.
My mother brought me to this world.
She brought me to this world
with great love, of course.
The only support she had
was our dear God.
She surrendered everything
to Him and told Him that
she would carry this pregnancy
to the end, despite the difficulties,
despite persuasions both from
the doctor and the whole family.
I can only be grateful to her that
I'm alive and that she gave me life.
I can only return her
the love she gave me
and be thankful to her
every day for giving me life.
Many children in this world
aren't born.
When I started praying in front
of the hospital and becoming aware
of the moment of conception,
that life is a gift, and the unborn...
Everything stirred inside me, and my
heart and my life got a new meaning.
I started reaching deeper into myself
and my own existence,
and the reason why I'm here.
Of course, the wound is big.
The sorrow and sadness are great,
when one realises that something as
beautiful as the beginning of a new life
actually occurred in a trauma.
But something good came out of it.
I was born. And I'm thankful to God
and my mother that I was born.
I'm praying here because I had
a close encounter with abortion
through the case of my late wife,
and her fight with breast cancer.
At one point, her illness progressed,
and the doctor notified me that
there would come the moment when
a decision would have to be made:
either the baby or my wife.
I didn't think about the possibility
of abortion at all.
I only thought about being with
my wife, in any way possible.
Eventually, my daughter was born.
Healthy, thank God.
I have to emphasise
that after that decision,
when you finally come to it,
God becomes very merciful.
God gives his grace abundantly
and He helped me immensely,
because my wife gave birth without any
problems or complications whatsoever.
My child wasn't sick, even though
my wife had galloping breast cancer.
God protected her from everything.
The case with my wife instilled in me
the love for the prayer for the unborn,
which I am doing now
in front of the hospital.
I want us to have a walk in the city.
We have one common place.
When I found out about the pregnancy,
I was quite shocked and confused.
It was a great amount
of negative emotions.
Disapproval and deprecation of people
around me also contributed to it.
They literally pushed me
to have an abortion.
But in my heart I didn't feel
that was the right thing to do.
I felt the right thing
was to give birth.
Little by little, things got better.
And today I have a 6-month-old baby.
I'm very happy.
And I know that I made
the only right choice.
I am already tired of Rome!
International conference
''Save more lives'', London, 2017
There he is!
I have presented to the Pope
our pro-life movement in Croatia.
I introduced to him our proud mother
Dalia and her daughter, our Nika.
All of us together. I asked him for
his blessing and his short message.
The Pope said:
"Just continue going forward.
Do as much as you can to save
as many babies as possible.
I'm with you. Pray for me.
I'll be praying for you!"
He gave us his blessing and we are
very happy and excited because of it.
We gave the Holy Father the painting
of the Most Holy Soul of Jesus Christ.
This is a wonderful devotion
connected with
the dignity and sanctity of human life.
I briefly explained to him
what it is about.
It is a devotion from Poland, from
the time of St Faustina Kowalska.
We have chosen it as a trademark
of 40 Days for Life in Croatia
and our other pro-life associations.
Every human life is precious.
Every human life is unrepeatable
in the history of mankind.
We are all unique and,
being aware of that,
we want to make people
aware of their greatness.
That we are all dignified
and beloved children of God.
Precious children of God.
Glory to the Father, and
to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit.
As it was in the beginning,
and now, and ever shall be,
world without end. Amen.
I heard about 40 Days for Life
on Facebook actually.
Even though all my life, as a believer,
I've felt that abortion was evil,
I never had this experience
in my life, in my closest family.
I considered 40 Days for Life
to be something positive,
but I never had the experience
of its concrete work and activity
until the moment this issue
came into my life.
40 years ago I had
a negative experience with abortion.
I already had two little girls,
age four and two,
when I became pregnant
for the third time.
Since I had no parents, there was
no one who could look after the baby,
and I was working.
There was no possiblity
for the baby to stay alive.
Everything started happening for me
when abortion walked into my life
through the situation with
my younger brother and his girlfriend.
At that time, I didn't know
that he even had a girlfriend.
One day I came to visit
my parents here,
because I don't live in this city,
in Velika Gorica, any more.
I came to visit my parents,
only to find my mother in tears.
At the doctor's office,
I had a negative experience
because of my naked body.
A nurse came in and smiled
wondering about the situation.
Tears started pouring out of nowhere.
I wasn't conscious of that
state as I am now.
And why I was crying so much.
I knew that it was murder,
but it didn't affect me
as much as it did later.
I asked what was happening,
only to find out that
my brother had a girlfriend,
that she was 17 and pregnant,
and that they were
considering abortion.
I went to confession and I cried.
Everyone outside could have
heard what I had done.
The priest was so understanding.
He didn't approve that,
but he wanted to calm me down.
He gave me absolution and
instructions. But I thought:
"My dear Father,
this won't help me at all.
I don't need absolution.
What I did, I can never forget."
...and blessed is the fruit
of Thy womb Jesus.
Holy Mary, Mother of God,
pray for us sinners,
now and at the hour
of our death. Amen.
I wait for the day, at my age.
I'm now in my golden age.
I only wait for the day
to meet with my children,
and when I see my little baby,
I will never let it go.
I will take it in my arms and
never let it go. I will play with him.
And worst of all, when the priest
asked me what I was using then.
I admitted I had an intrauterine coil,
meaning there were even more babies.
Which meant there occurred
a real genocide in my womb.
I contacted 40 Days for Life
through Facebook.
I got a response very quickly. I was
informed quite fast about everthing.
40 Days for Life
is active in Velika Gorica.
Together, we started
searching for a solution.
People who I don't know
and who don't know me
gave their 100% in prayer and fasting,
and I felt the love and support
which are actually
needed in a situation like this,
for pregnant women,
fathers, and families.
I am very sorry that
I did all this out of ignorance,
and out of precaution that I wouldn't
be able to feed my children.
And look what's happening today.
How many people come over,
and there is always food
and there is always something left.
And everyone is blessed.
But I have destroyed so many lives.
I knew that I couldn't approach
my brother from a religious side,
because this would result
in even greater resistance.
I would then come across
an even greater wall.
I tried talking to them about
not so much about the sanctity of life,
but about the fact that this
wasn't some dead-end situation.
Before we went to the clinic,
we sat down for coffee at the mall,
and the girl's phone was ringing
literally every 30 seconds.
Her mom was checking where they were
and when they were going to do that.
We weren't sure to the last minute
what was going to be the outcome.
During that one-week drama,
she showed great courage
and faith when she said,
when she reached her final decision
and said that she didn't want to go,
and that she had decided on life.
All I can say is that,
at that moment,
when that burden fell from my heart
and shoulders, that was indescribable.
At that moment, I became aware that
that wasn't something done by me or
40 Days for Life, but God's mercy.
Where they, after 6 days,
23 hours and 58 minutes,
of being absolutely sure about
abortion, simply chose life.
It was God's mercy and an incredible
lesson for me to go forward.
In different periods in history,
different battles were fought.
In one period, people fought for one
thing, in another for something else.
Our time is and will be great
because a person has stood up,
a Christian who believes in God,
to defend the life of an unborn baby
that is threatened by every
persecution in this world.
It is important to awaken
people who are believers,
and who are often members
of some religious communities,
and are involved as advocates for life,
but who in certain moments,
when some difficulties occur,
give up on their stance towards life
and reach for some measures
which can later become a burden
and which go against
the Lord's commandment.
Therefore, it is important
to clearly point it out to people,
to make it easier for them to take
a stand when they see people praying,
when they see people who are publicly
advocating for the value of life.
We know of three babies whose lives
have been saved in this campaign.
Three new stories,
three new worlds.
That is why these results are great.
That is why tonight we have
a reason to really celebrate.
We did not want to stop here.
We wanted to raise awareness
in the local community
about the problem of abortion
and the sanctity of human life.
That is why we decided
to make this CD album
with pro-life songs and prayers.
We are certain that this album will
save at least one baby from abortion.
You can be sure of that.
We have the book ''40 Days for Life''.
This baby that we can hear
was saved from abortion.
There is also one more
mother and baby here.
Benefactors’ evening, Zagreb, 2016
I simply could not decide on
giving birth to my seventh baby
until Miss Lidija invited me
to come to church on Monday.
Just to come and be with them
and talk to them.
They offered to help me
and give me everything I needed.
They begged me not to abort this
baby, not to hurt myself and the baby.
I decided to come.
The father who was there
talked to me about the situation.
My 11-year-old daughter
who was with me told me:
"Mom, don't abort my baby brother
or sister who is in your tummy."
When I heard all the prayers
and everything,
with God's help, I decided
not to go through with abortion.
Thank you very much.
I am especially glad and enthused by
how many people all over Croatia
are getting involved in the initiative
and how many are organised,
and how many join the prayer vigils.
That's what makes us
one big pro-life family.
And the Word became Flesh.
God became present
in our lives, for our world.
He became present for us, personally.
For each and every one of us.
He became God who is
present in our sufferings,
in our toils, our crises,
and our struggles.
He also wants to be
present in victories,
in recoveries, in healings,
and in deliverances.
He wants to be present every day
and in every moment of our lives.
That's why it is important to realise
that we are also invited
to this God's presence
in places where one suffers,
where one stumbles out of weariness,
where one is sick and carries a cross,
and where one is in need of mercy.
That is why our fight for life
is one big presence.
40 Days for Life is that something
which radically changes your life.
When we started, I had no idea
that I would meet so many mothers,
so many children,
whose lives would change my life.
The relationship with our mothers,
when I meet a mother
or when I meet a baby
that was saved from abortion,
no other feeling can replace
that joy and happiness.
When you hold this baby in your arms,
no matter the uncertainty in its life,
the life of its mother or our own,
that child and that life is worth
fighting for in this initiative.
And every soul of a mother or a baby
is what motivates us to go forward
and what motivates me personally
to get up in the morning
and keep on fighting for life.
"No one can do it for me,
to carry my cross,
to fulfil your plan.
No one can do it for me,
to overcome my fears,
to endure my battles.
Because You call me by my name.
I am neither a letter nor a number,
but engraved in the palm of Your hand.
You call me by my name.
I am neither a letter nor a number,
but the one You died for.
And this is my life.
My fight and my pain.
My joy and salvation,
and cross, and blessing.
This is my life.
My fight and pain.
My joy and salvation, and cross,
and a blessing from Heaven.
No one can do it for you,
to carry your cross,
to fulfil His plan.
No one can do it for you,
to walk your paths, to consecrate
oneself through your suffering.
Because He calls you by your name.
You are neither a letter nor a number,
He engraved you in the palm of His hand.
God calls you by your name.
You are neither a letter nor a number,
but the one He died for.
And this is your life.
Your fight and pain.
Your joy and salvation,
and cross, and blessing.
This is your life.
Your fight and pain.
Your joy and salvation, and cross,
and a blessing from Heaven.
Believe that there is love,
bigger than any fear,
bigger than any pain.
Believe that there is a hand
which embraces you
every time somebody leaves you.
This is my life. My fight and pain.
My joy and salvation,
and cross, and blessing.
This is my life.
My fight and pain.
My joy and salvation,
and cross, and blessing…"
From 2004 to 2018, more than
750,000 people in 50 countries.
have actively participated
in 40 Days for Life.
More than 14,700 babies have been saved
and 96 abortion clinics closed.
More than 180 abortion
workers quit their job.
40 Days for Life
has impacted millions of people.
In Croatia, more than 10,000 people
have participated in 29 cities.
In some hospitals, the number of abortions
has dropped for more than 50 per cent,
and we know of 57 babies
that have been saved.
The abortion problem has become one of
the most common subjects in society.